Using \href{https://github.com/idris-community/katla}{katla}'s pandoc
backend we can produce PDF documents containing semantically highlighted
Idris2 code.

The file you are currently reading is the rendered version of a literate
markdown/idris2 file. It is called \texttt{Source.md} and contains
fenced \texttt{idr} blocks.

\hypertarget{basic-usage}{%
\section{Basic Usage}\label{basic-usage}}

We can hide uninteresting code blocks by adding the \texttt{hide}
attribute. We hide an import of \texttt{Data.Vect} here. We won't see
anything in the output PDF.

We can use all Idris 2 features. Here's an example code block:

\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\BUseVerbatim[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{x}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{:}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Nat}\KatlaNewline{}
\IdrisFunction{x}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{=}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{1}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisFunction{+}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{2}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}

We can use namespaces by adding the \texttt{namespace} attribute, such
as to provide alternate definitions for functions. Consider this
function signature:

\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\BUseVerbatim[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{f}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{:}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Vect}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{n}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{a}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{\KatlaDash{}>}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Vect}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{(}\IdrisBound{n}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisFunction{+}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{n}\IdrisKeyword{)}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{a}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}

Here's one implementation for
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{f}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}:

\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\BUseVerbatim[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{f}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{xs}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{=}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{xs}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisFunction{++}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{xs}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}

By repeating the signature in a different namespace, in a hidden code
block, I can give an alternate definition:

\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\BUseVerbatim[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{f}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{xs}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{=}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{xs}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisFunction{++}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisFunction{reverse}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisBound{xs}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}

\hypertarget{inline-code}{%
\section{Inline Code}\label{inline-code}}

As well as block code, we can have inline code, like
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{the}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Nat}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{3}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}. Here's another:
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisData{1}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisFunction{+}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{2}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}. We can also call the function we previously defined:
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{f}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{[1,}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{2,}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{3]}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}.

By default, a code block is interpreted as top-level Idris 2
declarations, while inline code is interpreted as an expression. But we
can switch it up if we wish.

By using the \texttt{decls} class, we can write an inline declaration:
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{g}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{:}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Nat}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{\KatlaDash{}>}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Nat}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}.

By using the \texttt{expr} class, we can write a block expression:

\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\BUseVerbatim[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisData{[}\KatlaNewline{}
\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{1,}\KatlaNewline{}
\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{2,}\KatlaNewline{}
\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{3}\KatlaNewline{}
\IdrisData{]}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}

\hypertarget{types}{%
\section{Types}\label{types}}

Sometimes, Idris 2 cannot infer the type of an expression. Is
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisData{[1,}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{2,}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{3]}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{} a
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisType{List}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Nat}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}, or a
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisType{Vect}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{3}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Integer}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}? We can use the \texttt{type} attribute to tell Idris 2
which one it should be.

\hypertarget{multiple-files}{%
\section{Multiple Files}\label{multiple-files}}

If you need an import to \emph{not} be available, namespaces are not
enough. We can use the \texttt{file} attribute to put snippets in
separate files. For example, the signature of
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisFunction{f}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{} fails to compile if we use a new file, that hasn't
imported
\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\UseVerb[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisType{Vect}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}.

\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\BUseVerbatim[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisKeyword{failing}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{"Undefined\KatlaSpace{}name\KatlaSpace{}Vect."}\KatlaNewline{}
\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisFunction{f}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{:}\KatlaSpace{}Vect\KatlaSpace{}n\KatlaSpace{}a\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{\KatlaDash{}>}\KatlaSpace{}Vect\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{(}n\KatlaSpace{}+\KatlaSpace{}n\IdrisKeyword{)}\KatlaSpace{}a\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}

\hypertarget{packages}{%
\section{Packages}\label{packages}}

We can add Idris 2 packages to the YAML metadata of the Markdown file,
using the \texttt{idris2-packages} key. For example, adding
\texttt{contrib} allows us to use the \texttt{Language.JSON} module.

\let\KatlaSnippet\relax{}\newcommand\KatlaSnippet[1][]{\BUseVerbatim[#1]{KatlaSnippet}}
\begin{SaveVerbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]{KatlaSnippet}
\IdrisKeyword{import}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisModule{Language.JSON}\KatlaNewline{}
\KatlaNewline{}
\IdrisFunction{x}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{:}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{Maybe}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisType{JSON}\KatlaNewline{}
\IdrisFunction{x}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisKeyword{=}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisFunction{parse}\KatlaSpace{}\IdrisData{\#"\{"x":\KatlaSpace{}1,\KatlaSpace{}"y":\KatlaSpace{}2\}"\#}\KatlaNewline{}
\end{SaveVerbatim}
\KatlaSnippet{}
